Swiss web design it's simple minimal and
sometimes a little abstract but it works
here's why some of the most successful
websites and companies adopt at least
one of three key principles of Swiss
design did you know that helvetica
actually means Swiss in Latin and was
created in you guessed it Switzerland it
has become one of the most widely used
fonts for minimalism but the impct of
Swiss design doesn't stop there the
Swiss don't just make good watches how
do they also make great websites this
video covers the three principles of
Swiss web design looking at its history
culture and psychology why Swiss design
works for users designers and developers
and how it underlies today's most
successful websites imagine this you're
a starving artist in 1890 in Paris and
you head to a bar to drink away your
student loans next to the bartender you
see some artwork they might look
something like this art Nuvo is a
popular style in 1900's Paris that
features elegant curves ornamental
design and female figures fast forward
to 1920s your art career is getting
better and you travel to Germany where
things start to get a little abstract
the bow house movement in Germany
featuring geometric shapes in red yellow
and blue emphasizes utility function and
gets rid of unnecessary ornamentation
after World War II we see the emergence
of order and rationality this directly
translated into design where we see the
move away from Art Deco to a more
structured simple design at the same
time these other styles became popular
constructivism in Russia and the style
in the Netherlands and from this we see
the birth of the Swiss style POV you're
at a baby
shower oh what a cute baby I'll teach
him how to drw squares uh are you joking
he obviously first has to learn how to
use red yellow and blue no but cubes are
important honey no colors have to come
first stop stop stop can you guys just
stop fighting and let the kid do
[Music]
both so what are the three principles of
Swiss web design number one simple lay
out under Swiss design lies undeniably
good user experience a key feature is
the grid system a method to effectively
categorize content take a look at this
this methodical arrangement of elements
is especially important in complex
layouts such as magazines brochures and
websites where Clarity and readability
are Paramount one of the key advantages
to using a grid system is that it allows
for flexibility within a structured
framework designers can experiment with
different alignments and placements
while ensuring that the overall design
remains cohesive this balance between
structure and flexibility is a Hallmark
of Swiss design and to enhance the sense
of Simplicity Swiss design is very
particular with its typography again
helvetica among many other sensor fonts
are used to make sure that content is
legible allowing space to emphasize what
matters then we see the use of geometric
shapes which convey messages in both an
abstract and clear kind of way the
second principle of Swiss web design is
what I like to call the no BS navigation
don't let your users dig for information
the grid system divides content into
rows and columns which makes navigation
extremely intuitive you can almost
divide things without using lines Swiss
design can be encapsulated in two
phrases less is more and form follows
function
include only what is necessary on the
web page this could be having fewer
layers in your information hierarchy or
simply using an already expanded menu
opposed to a hamburger menu if you don't
have too many pages of course and guess
what this Simplicity is backed up by
psychological research a 2022 study
analyzed up to 13,000 web pages to find
what's most aesthetic and they do this
with this fancy algorithm from the
results there were are two interesting
findings number one the t-shaped regions
of the web page are key regions in the
web page design and number two this is
the big guy web pages with relatively
little information are more likely to be
favored by users of course as we know
culture impacts this and we cannot
generalize the findings of this study to
all cultures but this does kind of
explain why Swiss web design works so
well the third principle is the
efficient Swiss culture let me explain
the Swiss style is extremely efficient
why to find out let's fly out to
Switzerland this efficiency started with
their transportation system the Swiss
live in mountains wide lands and
environments that no other country
experience yet it has one of the best
road and Railway networks in the world
partly because they figured out a way to
get energy from nature if you want a
deep dive into into this I cited the
video Source below essentially they made
great use of their existing resources
and it's genius why is efficiency so
ingrained in Swiss culture well it began
with their education system vocational
training is deeply entrenched in the
Swiss culture what this means is that as
part of their education the students
from an early age assume
responsibilities and are faced with
practical problems in a work environment
this is part of the reason why the Swiss
vocational training system is widely
regarded as one of the best in the world
uh tell me why I should care why does
Swiss web design work for users
designers and developers well for users
let's say one day you got very hungry
and you go to Panda Express hi how can I
help you yeah so the other day five
pandas came here and ate all of our
menus but we do have the online copy on
our
website you go on Google type in Panda
Express click on the first link go to
their website extra dollars for Hungry
Scholars you don't care because you're
hungry so you scroll down see the food
click on food pick a random location
because you just want to see the darn
menu Panda rewards again you don't care
because your stomach is growling you
exit the popup sign up later at this
point you're not even hungry anymore and
you finally see the names of the menu
items a Swiss web designer on the other
hand would get rid of all the fluff and
put the menu front and center on the
page because half the time that's what
visitors of this website are doing
trying to find the menu of course it's
not to say that these other pages of
pandaexpress.com are not valuable but
Swiss web design would urge them to
start with what matters most and go from
there in this case the hungry user would
be happy because finding the menu was
quick and a good user experience and
this focus on a good user experience is
not just in website design check out
Swiss money Swiss money doesn't obey the
rules first of all it's vertical most
currencies like the dollar euro and Yen
opt for a landscape design but
Switzerland is the exception Swiss money
expands vertically because a New York
Times study showed that most people
exchange bills while standing so it's
intuitively easier to hold and read a
bill vertically this is also good for
visually impaired people people because
different sizes make it easier to sort
through and this translates into website
design the Swiss would ask what is the
most legible the most clear and
straightforward way to present content
let's emphasize readability to make
things more accessible and with simpler
designs it's often times easier to
develop less information means fewer
databases having a simple website
architecture means a simple backend
structure which could mean simpler code
here are some websites that employ Swiss
design first Apple known for chucking
their products on the page front and
center but for the Nerds who want to
learn more Apple employs a grid system
layout to make sure that info is
presented clearly using sanser font and
lots of white space speaking of grids
notion loves grids the table view is one
of their most popular features that
users use to organize their life and
finally how does Google use Swiss design
remember remember the no BS navigation
principle there's a reason why Google
has kept the same search layout all
those years the last thing they would do
is hide all of these links behind
expandable menus and make the user's
life miserable finally we see Swiss
design in the everyday take for instance
New York City metro signs the iconic
font and symbols make it easy for New
Yorkers to get around in the bustling
city as famous producer Rick ruin says
it's helpful to view currents in the
culture culture without feeling
obligated to follow the direction of
their flow Swiss web design shines with
the principles that it follows but what
matters more are the rules it breaks
back when it differed from the art newvo
style people were skeptical but now we
love it so which design rule shall you
break next
[Music]